yeah so here we are fantasy of flight
I've got the courtesy w19 are behind me
I was an acquisition last year we got it
all together it's ready to test fly so
let's go check it out
this was a export airplane back in the
30s Libya pretty much used most of it a
little 30 caliber machine gun it's a
two-position propeller which i've never
flown so that's going to be interesting
and it's got these cute little spats
that cover up the landing gear this is
before they started using retractable
gear it's a great transition period
airplane showing the evolution from you
know the fabric by planes into the
monoplanes made out of metal and
originally you know they just covered
the the fixed landing gear with spats
and there was a later version of this
which I also have which is a CW 22 that
has retractable gear so maybe after I
fly this one will start looking at the
other one
like a race
anyway so that's uh that's pretty cool
and left gear Wednesday up oh really
they open our looking there the problem
is this access being able to get in
there to see if you can get the pin out
but I'll take a look at hey we won't eat
everybody does
yeah so I just got to go fly the Curtis
CW 19 are behind me here the cute little
airplane oh my god and it was a very
interesting is the first time I've ever
flown an airplane with a two-position
prop kind of caught me a little bit
surprised on takeoff I took off in fine
pitch the RPM was pretty much going up
to the redline way before I expected the
the manifold pressure because it was up
but oh maybe twenty three twenty four
inches of manifold pressure it'll go to
thirty five and a half inches and I'd
already hit the redline by the time I
before I got the twenty five inches so
that surprised me anyway so I kept the
blue the red line went ahead and climbed
out like that got up to about a thousand
feet let the attempt cooled off went
ahead and you know flew around for a
little bit and then I went ahead and put
it into a course pitch which is actually
forward on the throttle quadrant the
prop came back much quicker than it
cycled on the ground and so that was
interesting and at that point everything
seemed to settle in I put it about 1900
rpm and it was about I'd say about 27 27
and a half inches of manifold pressure
so that felt very comfortable to me I
can't remember exactly what the airplane
cruises at but seems like it was always
around 140 mile an hour range flies very
nice and the after I flew around for a
little bit I went ahead to you know
cycle back the propeller back to fine
pitch I could never get it come back to
fine pitch so we're going to take a look
at the prop there's still one left
landing gear I understand it's hanging
out it appears that there's a little pin
that's a little bit too short and it's
not quite engaging that left strut when
it comes
to hold it for flying around normally
once the flaps are brought down the pins
come out and the landing gear drops and
it blends very very softly I'm very very
surprised seems like it's probably I
didn't approach the stall I didn't
actually stall it until I kind of got a
little more familiar with it get a
little more altitude and but it lands
very softly on the ground what happens
is when the gears all the way up there's
some big coiled Springs that actually
take the shock of the airplane taxing
across like a turf runway like mine but
once you come into land
drop the flaps then they drop down even
further like I said on lands really
smooth so so we got to sort out the
landing gear problem we got to sort out
why the prop is not cycling and seems
like a burns about 15 gallons an hour
fun little airplane I think I get
another flight or two in it then we'll
throw somebody in the back so cool might
be you